biggest reason why car insurance claims are so difficult is that we approach it from the policyholder's
perspective.  We don't know
how insurance companies look at it
and because of a small mistake our entire
claim gets rejected.  In today's
video I am going to tell you the complete process of car insurance claim
step by step.
And I will also tell you at which step
you make very small mistakes
due to which you face problems in the claim and how
you can avoid them.  Any accident is an
emergency event and in that emergency
you do not have enough time to
understand the claim process and then follow it.
So you should be aware of this beforehand
so that you
can follow the entire claim process within a few seconds and
after that there will be no rejection in the claim, no
legal hassle and you will also get the full amount of the claim.  I just have
one request for you.   At the
end of the video you will have to agree to one thing I say.
But first let us understand the claim process.
After any road accident, the first thing
we have to do is control the medical emergency.
Car insurance
is also very important.  But first we should
worry about humans.  If passengers in our vehicle
are injured or any other
person is injured, then first of all
provide them with hospital or medical aid.
If the vehicle is not in a driving condition,
you can also call an ambulance
so that any injured person can get timely treatment.
You must also immediately inform any family member or relative about the emergency of this accident
so that they can know what situation you
are in and if you take any injured person
to the hospital for treatment, then
keep their admission and treatment documents very carefully.
After controlling the medical emergency, the next
step is to capture the damage caused to the vehicle.
You can also capture this through photos and videos in your phone.
If they come with a date and time stamp,
it's even better.  And if
your vehicle has been involved in a major accident, the
damage is extensive, or your vehicle is a
commercial vehicle, then you should get a sports
survey done.  In the sports survey, the
surveyor from the insurance company itself will
come here and take photographs etc.  For which
you have to keep the vehicle at this location.  If you
want, you can definitely park your vehicle on the side of the road
so that there is
no problem for the passersby.  Along with this, you can
also note down the date, time and location here.
If it is a major accident
, there is damage to a third party i.e. another
person, property and there is an
eye witness to it, then
you can also take their contact details which can be
very beneficial for you legally.  The third step is to
file an FIR.  But the question
arises whether we should file an FIR in every accident
?  It's not like that.
If someone else is involved in a road accident apart from our vehicle.
Even if it is someone else's vehicle,
someone is injured, someone's
property is damaged, we must
file an FIR.  Get every detail in the FIR
checked very carefully
so that nothing creates any problem in your claim in the future.
After registering the FIR, you must keep a copy of it with you.  The
fourth step is claim
intimation.  Now
we know that this accident has happened, the police station knows about it.
But who has to pay the claim?  To the insurance
company.  So it
is very important to inform the insurance company about this claim.   The
most important thing is that there is
a deadline for filing this claim i.e. claim intimation.
You will have to register this claim by calling the toll free number of the insurance company within 24 to 48 hours of the accident.
Now the
question also arises that after the accident,
we may not have any time for 2 days.
What should we do if there is a medical emergency?  You
must call the insurance company once.  You can get the car
repaired after a week or 10 days or a month.
But since
you have to take the insurance claim of this vehicle, as a
policy holder it is our responsibility that the
insurance company should know about this accident.
You can get your car repaired whenever you want.  The
process of filing a claim is very simple.  You have to
call the toll free number of the insurance company.
You should have the vehicle's RC,
insurance policy, driving license and
complete accident details with you
so that you can file the claim with correct details.
Once you have provided this information, do
not forget to obtain a reference number or claim number from the insurance company.  In the fifth step,
you have to take this damaged vehicle to the workshop
because it will be repaired there.
So for this you should look for cashless workshops
where you will
not have to pay advance money for this repair.  This could
also be the manufacturer's authorized workshop for your vehicle's brand.  Or
apart from this, there is a multi-brand workshop where
vehicles of all companies are repaired.
You can take the car there also.
But if it is a cashless garage then it will be a
very good thing for you.  If your vehicle
is not in driving condition, you will
also have to use a towing vehicle and
this is also covered in many insurance policies.
So, when the vehicle is towed from the car to the workshop,
you can get the invoice for it from the car service provider
and if there is an authorized workshop near the accident site,
then they
can also send their recovery or breakdown vehicle for you.
In the sixth step, your vehicle will be
repaired in the workshop.
But when will this happen?  You should tell the workshop
not to start repairing the vehicle without asking you
because a
surveyor from the insurance company will also come to the workshop.  They do a survey here
and match the damage from the on-side accident with the
current damage in the vehicle
and the surveyor
tells the workshop to give a repair
estimate.  That means, how much money will you spend to
repair this car?  Which parts
will be replaced?  What are your labor charges
?  A detailed estimate is sought from the workshop
and the surveyor checks
that the actual loss and the estimate match.
This entire report and documents are
sent to the insurance company for approval.  In the seventh step, the
repair work of your vehicle starts.   You will receive
approval from the insurance company that
your work can be started.
You have to do a very important thing here.  When
work start approval for your vehicle comes.  If you get
approval to start the repair work, then
you must check this.  You
can call the workshop to check whether
all your damaged parts have been
approved by the insurance company or
not.  Is there any part
which he has rejected?
Approval for this part will not come later.
After checking the entire list at this step,
ask to start the work and if any
part is rejected or
not approved by the insurance company, then
talk to the surveyor about it.  Now
after repairing your car, it is completely ready
at the workshop and now comes the eighth step.
Another survey is conducted by the insurance company.
Now the surveyor checks whether the
damaged parts of the vehicle and the
parts mentioned in the repair estimate have been
installed properly by the workshop?
How is the quality of the repair?
Have all the parts mentioned been replaced
?  And along with this, a record is also maintained of the damaged parts that have been
removed from the vehicle
so that there is no loophole or deficiency in the entire process of repairing the vehicle,
in the quality of repair,
in the claim amount of the insurance company.
Now
before the insurance company releases the claim payment.
Now comes the ninth step.  Whatever
pending documents we have, we will have to
submit them to the surveyor.
What documents are required for a claim?  Let us
understand its complete list once.   First of all,
you must provide the RC of the vehicle i.e. registration certificate, then the insurance policy, after this the driving license i.e. the DLB of the person who was driving the vehicle at the time of the accident.
Pollution Under Control
Certificate of the vehicle.  Apart from this, if
any FIR has been registered in this accident then
you will have to give its copy to the surveyor also.  If there is any medical
legal report i.e. MLC, if someone was
injured then that report should also be submitted.  The
initial estimate for the repair of the vehicle and the actual invoice, i.e. the
actual parts fitted in the vehicle,
both these documents will be submitted to the workshop surveyor.
Apart from this, PAN
card and Aadhar card of the car owner can be taken as KYC.
And if it is a reimbursement
claim, that is, the claim money will
come into the car owner's account, then a cancelled
cheque will also have to be given there so that the account details can
reach the insurance company.  The
surveyor collects all these documents from you,
prepares a report and
sends it to the insurance company.  This includes
all reports, documents, repair
estimates, invoices and other
documents related to the claim.  Now in the final 10th
step, the insurance company will
make the payment of this claim.  And there are two ways this can happen.
If you have got your vehicle
repaired in a cashless garage or cashless workshop,
then the claim amount will
go directly to the workshop.  You just have to
pay the difference amount to the workshop.  Let us
understand this with an example.  Suppose the
repair cost of my car is ₹1 lakh.   If
the claim is approved for ₹95,000, then
I will have to pay only the difference amount of ₹5,000
to the workshop.  If it is a cashless claim.
But if it is a reimbursement claim i.e. there
is no tie up between the workshop and the insurance company then I will have to pay the entire bill i.e.
₹1 lakh to the workshop and
₹95,000 will be credited to my account as claim amount.  So, it is
better that you get
your vehicle repaired in a cashless garage
so that there is no financial burden on you.
If you do not have a cashless garage and the
claim money is to be credited to your account, then
take special care of one more thing.  Many
claims get delayed because the
surveyor does not submit the documents we had submitted
to the insurance company on time.
He has many more
claims.  There are a lot of surveys.
So they keep our file with themselves
or forget it.  So
also confirm from the surveyor whether your file has been
submitted to the insurance company
?  Is there any pendency in this?
If there is any deficiency, complete it and
submit it to the insurance company.
You can get this confirmation from the surveyor
so that you get your money on time.  Now
you have understood the car insurance claim process in
detail.  But it
is very difficult to remember such a long claim process.  So I have solved this problem of yours also.
But first you have to
agree to one thing I say.  You
must forward this video to at least one person
so that they can also understand the car insurance claim
process better.  I have given the
PDF document of the claim process checklist
in the description of this video.
You can go and download it immediately.
Take a hint of it and
keep it in your car so that if you need it tomorrow,
you do not miss any important point
and there is no problem in your claim.
Unnecessary add-ons while buying a new car
can increase your car insurance premium significantly.
What is the use of which add-on,
should you take it or not?
I have given all this detail in this video.
You must watch this video once.
I, Harvinder Singh, now take your permission.   I
will meet you in the next video.  Till then take
care of yourself, stay happy and
stay healthy.  Jai Hind.